8.1. Types of wood suitable for smoking


ALDER - Very delicate with a hint of sweetness.  Good with
        fish, pork, poultry, and light-meat game birds.

ALMOND - A nutty and sweet smoke flavor, light ash, very
         much like pecan.  Good with all meats.

APPLE - Very mild with a subtle fruity flavor, slightly
        sweet.  Good with poultry (turns skin dark brown)
        and pork.

ASH -   Fast burner, light but distinctive flavor.  Good with
        fish and red meats.

BLACK WALNUT - Very heavy smoke flavor, usually mixed with
       lighter wood like hickory or mesquite.  Can be bitter if
       used alone.  Good with red meats and game.

CHERRY - Mild, fruity, but slightly bitter if it comes from
         chokecherry trees.  Good with poultry, pork and 
         beef (turns skin brown).

GRAPEVINES - Tart.  Provides a lot of smoke.  Rich and
         fruity.  Good with poultry, red meats, game and lamb.

HICKORY - Most commonly used wood for smoking.  Sweet to
          strong, heavy bacon flavor.  Good with pork, 
          ham and beef.

LILAC -  Very light, subtle with a hint of floral.  Good
         with seafood and lamb.

MAPLE -  Smoky, mellow and slightly sweet.  Good with pork,
         poultry, cheese, and small game birds.

MESQUITE - Strong earthy flavor.  Good with beef, fish,
         chicken, and game.  One of the hottest burning.

OAK -   Heavy smoke flavor. Red oak is good on ribs, white
        oak makes the best coals for longer burning.  
        Good with red meat, fish and heavy game.

ORANGE and LEMON - Light and citrusy.  Good with pork and
       game birds.

PEAR - A nice subtle flavor.  Much like apple.  Excellent
       with chicken and pork.

PECAN - A cool burner.  Nutty and sweet.  Tasty with a
        subtle character.  Good with steaks, ribs, and cheese.

SWEET FRUIT WOODS - Apricot, Plum, Peach
       Great on most white or pink meats, including chicken,
       turkey, pork, fish.  The flavor is milder and sweeter 
       than hickory.

===============

All-South Barbecue Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      tablespoons   salt
   2      tablespoons   sugar
   2      tablespoons   brown Sugar
   2      tablespoons   ground cumin
   2      tablespoons   chile powder
   2      tablespoons   freshly cracked black pepper
   1      tablespoon    cayenne pepper
   4      tablespoon    paprika

Simply mix together.  I usually double or quadruple the
recipe since it is used liberally.

===============

General-Purpose Dry Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2-1/2  tablespoons   dark brown sugar
   1-1/2  teaspoons     dried sweet basil
     1/8  teaspoon      ground cumin
     3/4  teaspoon      ground coriander
     3/4  teaspoon      ground savory
     3/4  teaspoon      dried thyme
     3/4  teaspoon      black pepper
     3/4  teaspoon      white pepper
   2      tablespoons   paprika
   2      teaspoons     dry mustard
   2      teaspoons     onion powder
   2      teaspoons     garlic powder
   2      tablespoons   salt

==================

Poultry Perfect Rub

Recipe By     : "Smoke and Spice"

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4  cup           Hungarian paprika
     1/4  cup           black pepper -- freshly ground
     1/4  cup           celery salt
     1/4  cup           sugar
   2      tablespoons   onion powder
   2      tablespoons   dry mustard
   2      teaspoons     cayenne
   2      tablespoons   zest from 3 to 4 lemons, dried and
minced

Mix ingredients in a bowl.  Store in a tightly sealed jar
in a cool dark place.

===============

Barbecue Spice Mixture

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2  cup           Chili powder
     1/4  cup           Hickory flavored salt
   3      tablespoons   Onion powder
   2      tablespoons   Cumin
   1      tablespoon    Paprika
   1      tablespoon    Garlic
   1      tablespoon    Brown sugar
   1      teaspoon      Cayenne pepper
     1/2  teaspoon      Dry mustard
     1/2  teaspoon      Lemon zest

  Mix ingredients thoroughly.

=================

Dry Rub No. 1

Recipe By     : GRILLIN' AND CHILLIN' SHOW #GR3603

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      tablespoon    paprika, Hungarian
     1/2  teaspoon      celery salt
     1/2  teaspoon      sugar
     1/2  teaspoon      sage
     1/2  teaspoon      mustard
     1/2  teaspoon      Chipotle powder

 Mix all ingredients well and reserve in refrigerator,
covered tightly.  Will keep for up to 2 weeks.

==============

Bear's Brisket Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------

   2      tablespoons   garlic powder
   2      tablespoons   onion powder
   2      tablespoons   salt
   2      tablespoons   pepper
   1      tablespoon    thyme
   1      cup           dark brown sugar

Mix ingredients well and rub on.

=============

Jack's Dry Rub

Recipe By     : GRILLIN' & CHILLIN' SHOW GR3626

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      teaspoon      sage
   1      teaspoon      salt
   1      teaspoon      pepper
     1/2  teaspoon      ground cumin

 Combine all ingredients, and mix well.

===============

"On The Grill Memphis" Rib Rub

Recipe By     : On The Grill Magazine - June 1997

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   3      tablespoons   paprika
   1      tablespoon    onion powder
   1      tablespoon    garlic powder
   1      tablespoon    ground basil
   1 1/2  tablespoons   dry mustard
   1      tablespoon    red pepper
     1/2  tablespoon    black pepper

Combine dry rub ingredients and rub onto ribs. Cook ribs
over hickory coals at 190 to 200F 4 to 5 hours. Fifteen
minutes before serving coat the ribs with heated honey.

===============

Cambridge Dry Rub (thanks to Chris Schlesinger)

Recipe By     : John Willingham's World Championship Bar-B-
Q

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2  cup           dark or light brown sugar
   3      tablespoons   salt
   3      tablespoons   black pepper
   3      tablespoons   chili powder
   2      tablespoons   cumin powder
   2      tablespoons   paprika
   2      teaspoons     garlic powder -- optional
   2      teaspoons     lemon pepper -- optional

I adapted this rub from a recipe by my good friend Chris
Schlesinger. His version is in his book "The Thrill of the
Grill", which he wrote with John Willoughby. I have altered
the quantities of the ingredients to suit my own tastes.
This is an excellent all-purpose rub for chicken, fish,
pork, beef, or lamb, and can also be a breading for deep-
frying. Sprinkle it into the batter for deep-fried
zucchini, onion rings, or mushrooms. Wow! For a basting
sauce or marinade, I add soy sauce, vinegar, and water.

In the top half of a double boiler set over simmering
water, combine all the ingredients. Cook for about 20
minutes, stirring every 5 minutes or so, until the sugar
begins to melt and the mixture thickens. Remove from the
heat and let the mixture cool to 100F.  Pass the mixture
through a sifter. Use immediately or store in a cool, dark
place for several months.

===============

SPICY CHILI RUB

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      tablespoon    ground black pepper
   2      teaspoons     cayenne pepper
   2      tablespoons   chili powder
   2      tablespoons   ground cumin
   2      tablespoons   brown sugar
   1      tablespoon    ground oregano
   4      tablespoons   paprika
   2      tablespoons   salt
   1      tablespoon    granulated sugar
   1      tablespoon    white pepper

Mix all ingredients in small bowl.

=================

Chris Schlesinger's BBQ Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/4  cup           paprika
     1/4  cup           cumin seed, toasted and ground
     1/4  cup           coriander seed, toasted and ground
     1/4  cup           brown sugar
     1/4  teaspoon      salt
     1/4  teaspoon      pepper

===============

Sweet & Spicy BBQ Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1 1/3  cups          brown sugar
   1      15-ounce can  tomato sauce
   1      cup           cider vinegar
   1      large         onion, chopped
   6      tablespoons   Dijon mustard
   1 1/3  tablespoons   thyme, dried, crumbled
   1      teaspoon      salt
   1      teaspoon      cayenne pepper

Combine all in medium saucepan.  Simmer 15 minutes to blend
flavors.  Season with pepper to taste.
(Can be made two days ahead.  Cover, chill.)

credit: Bon Appetite - Nov. 1992

===============

Kansas City-Style BBQ Sauce

Recipe By     : John Willingham's World Champion Bar-B-Q

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4  cup           Light brown sugar -- packed
   1      pkg           chili seasoning (1 1/4 oz.)
                        (Garry Howard's Chile Powder recipe
is good)
   2      teaspoons     Dry mustard
   1      teaspoon      Ginger -- ground
     1/2  teaspoon      Allspice -- ground
     1/4  teaspoon      Cayenne pepper
     1/4  teaspoon      Mace -- ground
     1/4  teaspoon      Black pepper -- fresh ground
   1      cup           White distilled vinegar
     1/4  cup           Molasses
     1/4  cup           Water
  32      ounces        Ketchup
   3      teaspoons     Liquid smoke (optional)

In a large saucepan, combine the brown sugar, chili
seasoning, mustard, ginger, allspice, cayenne, mace, and
black pepper.  Add the vinegar, molasses, water, and liquid
smoke.  Stir until dry ingredients are dissolved.  Add the
ketchup and stir to mix.

Bring to a boil over high heat, stirring constantly to
avoid spattering.  Reduce the heat to low, cover, and
simmer for 30 minutes.  Remove from the heat and let cool
to room temperature.  Use immediately or cool to room
temperature, cover, and refrigerate for up to 1 week.

This will last much longer than one week in the
refrigerator if you use commercial ketchup (which has an
antioxidant in it).

===================

Almost Dreamland Barbecue Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      28-ounce can  tomato puree
     1/3  cup           yellow mustard
   3      cups          water
   1 1/2  cups          cider vinegar
     1/4  cup           dark corn syrup
   2      tablespoons   lemon juice
   1      tablespoon    sugar
   1      tablespoon    brown sugar, packed
   2      tablespoons   chili powder
   1      tablespoon    dry mustard
   1      tablespoon    paprika
   2      teaspoons     ground red pepper
   2      teaspoons     onion powder
   1      teaspoon      salt
   1      teaspoon      ground black pepper
     1/2  teaspoon      garlic powder

In a large saucepan, whisk together tomato puree and
mustard until smooth. Stir in remaining ingredients and
bring to a boil.  Reduce heat to low and simmer 30 minutes,
stirring occasionally.  Serve warm.  Sauce may be
refrigerated for several weeks.

===============

Fergy's BBQ Sauce (Tomato based)

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      cups          Catsup
   1      cup           Cider Vinegar
   1      tablespoons   large onion, chopped
   4      tablespoons   Chili Powder
   2      cup           water
   1      tablespoons   Garlic Powder
   1      tablespoons   Worcestershire Sauce
     1/4  cup           Molasses
   2      tablespoons   Louisiana Style Hot Sauce

Bring to boil, then reduce heat and let simmer for 30 min,
stirring occasionally.  Store in jar or squirt bottle.

===============

Rock's Doctered-Up Cattleman's BBQ Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      quart         Cattlemen's Smoky BBQ Sauce
     1/2  cup           margarine
     1/2  cup           brown sugar, packed
   2      teaspoons     Roasted Garlic Pepper - to taste
   1 1/2  tablespoons   Chipotle Sauce - to taste

Melt butter in sauce pan.  Add brown sugar and stir until
melted.  Stir in the rest of the ingredients and simmer for
15 minutes.  Can be served immediately, but best if allowed
to chill over night.

Note: The chipotle sauce is not the adobo kind that has
been discussed on the list in the past.  This is the Bufalo
(their spelling) brand, "Chipotle Mexican Hot Sauce" that's
made in Mexico, and distributed by the Herdez Co. out of
Carlsbad, CA.  It's labeled as "very hot" but don't believe
it!  It's pretty mild.

===============

Original CyberSauce

Recipe By     : Members Of The BBQ Mailing List

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        renderings from 1/4 pound bacon
   1      large         Canadian onion -- grated
     1/2  cup           green bell pepper -- grated
   4      cloves        garlic -- minced
     1/2  cup           New Mexican chile powder -- ground
   2      teaspoons     cumin
   2      tablespoons   ground mustard
   1      cup           cider vinegar
  28      ounces        ketchup
   2      teaspoons     nuoc nam
   2      tablespoons   Worcestershire sauce
   1      teaspoon      lemon peel
   1      teaspoon      coarsely ground black pepper
   1      teaspoon      ground white pepper
   6                    chipotles en adobo -- minced
     1/2  cup           brown sugar
          pinch         pickling spice
   1      teaspoon      crushed rosemary
                        juice from 2 lemons
  12      ounces        malty beer, low hopped
     1/2  cup           Jack Daniel's
                        hot pepper sauce -- to taste

Fry bacon and remove from skillet. Saut‚ onions and green
pepper in drippings until onions are translucent. Add
garlic and stir for 1 minute. Add chile powder, cumin, and
mustard. Cook for two minutes until the kitchen is bursting
with aroma. Add remaining ingredients. Bring to boil and
reduce heat to low, stirring frequently. Simmer one hour or
until it reaches desired thickness. Remove sock before
serving.

===============

Belly's 'Kick-Ass' BBQ Sauce -- Texas Style

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      quart         V8 Juice
   1      quart         Beef Stock (de-greased)
     1/2  cup           yellow mustard
     1/2  cup           apple cider
   1      cup           dark molasses
     1/3  cup           black pepper
     1/3  cup           Hungarian Sweet Paprika, fresh
     1/4  cup           Worcestershire Sauce
   1      big           yellow Onion minced
   1      cup           Hatch NM Chiles or any mild chiles
                        roasted and peeled, minced
     1/2  cup           pressed Garlic

Mix together V8 juice and beef stock.  Then add mustard,
cider, molasses, black pepper and paprika as you stir the
sauce.  Put mixture on stove to simmer.  After 1/2 hour,
add Worcestershire sauce, minced yellow onion, chiles, and
garlic.  Let the sauce simmer for about 2 hours in your pit
to pick up the good smoke taste.  Stir and taste often as
it simmers.  After about three hours total simmering time,
taste and add some salt if needed.  If you want it hotter,
add some Louisiana Hot Sauce.  You can put it in a blender
to smooth it out.  Let the sauce cool and put it in a
gallon jug and let age at least a week in the refrigerator
before using.

Serve on the side with Brisket, Ribs, Chicken or over
Steak.

===============

Here's the winning recipe from June's "Best of the Web
Recipe Contest".

Great Barbecue Sauce.  Contributed on-line by Cyndi
Whitley.

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2  cup           cider vinegar
     1/4  cup           water
   1      cup           chopped onion
   1      small         lemon (unpeeled), cut into thin
strips
     1/4  cup           packed light brown sugar
   2      tablespoons   prepared mustard
   1      tablespoon    Worcestershire sauce
   2      teaspoons     salt
     1/4  teaspoon      red pepper flakes, crushed
   1      Dash          hot pepper sauce (like Tabasco), to
taste
   1      cup           tomato catsup
     1/4  cup           chili sauce

1. In a large saucepan, mix the vinegar and water. Stir in
the onion, lemon, sugar, mustard, Worcestershire sauce,
salt, red pepper flakes, and hot pepper sauce.

2. Stir over medium-high heat until the mixture comes to a
rolling boil.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer,
uncovered, for 20 minutes. Check and stir occasionally.

3. Stir in the catsup and chili sauce. Increase the heat
and return the sauce to a full boil.  Remove the sauce from
the heat and let cool about 15 minutes before using.

4. This makes a great barbecue sauce for brushing on steaks
and chicken--use lemon strips and all!  Cover and marinate
in the refrigerator for at least an hour before grilling.
Baste the meat with additional sauce while grilling. Serve
hot off the grill with extra sauce for dipping.
Yields about 1 pint.

===============


Silver Pig Style Hot Table Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   9      teaspoons     malt vinegar
   7      teaspoons     water
   3      teaspoons     cayenne pepper
   3      teaspoons     paprika
   2      teaspoons     nuoc nam
   1 1/2  teaspoons     Texas Pete hot sauce
   1 1/2  teaspoons     black pepper
     1/2  teaspoon      garlic powder
     1/2  teaspoon      onion powder

This is an approximation of the hot table sauce served at
the Silver Pig North Carolina-style barbecue restaurant in
Madison Heights, Virginia. If you don't have nuoc nam
(Vietnamese or Thai fish sauce), add one more teaspoon each
of malt vinegar and water, and substitute one teaspoon of
salt in lieu of the nuoc nam.

Simply combine all ingredients, shake well, and let sit.
Give the bottle a good shake before using.

===============

Tommy Bowen's Pulled Pork BBQ Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   32     ounce         cheap ketchup
     2/3  cup           apple cider vinegar
   1      cup           sugar
   1      stick         margarine
   1      cup           lemon juice
   2      teaspoons     black pepper
   2      tablespoons   crushed red pepper (red pepper
flakes)

Put in a pot and bring to a boil.  Keeps for weeks (months
even) in the fridge.  Good stuff.

===============


Lexington-Style Finishing Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      cups          white vinegar
   2      cups          apple cider vinegar
   2      cups          water
     1/3  cup           ketchup
     1/8  cup           Texas Pete Hot Sauce
   1      tablespoon    sugar
   1      tablespoon    red pepper flakes
   2      teaspoons     nuoc nam

Mix ingredients and simmer on low heat for 30 minutes,
stirring occasionally. Use as a finishing sauce for pulled
pork barbecue.

===============


Eastern North Carolina-Style Barbecue Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      cup           distilled white vinegar
   1      cup           cider vinegar
   1      tablespoon    sugar
   1      tablespoon    crushed red pepper flakes
   1      tablespoon    hot red pepper flakes
                        Salt and ground pepper to taste

Mix all ingredients, including salt and pepper, to taste,
in medium bowl.

Adapted from a recipe in Chris Schlesinger and John
Willoughby's "The Thrill of the Grill" (Morrow, 1990), this
is a classic pepper-spiked vinegar sauce.  Use on pulled
pork.

===============

Mid-South Carolina Mustard Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      cup           cider vinegar
   6      tablespoons   Dijon mustard
   2      tablespoons   maple syrup or honey
   4      teaspoons     Worcestershire sauce
   1      teaspoon      hot red pepper sauce
   1      cup           vegetable oil
   2      teaspoons     salt
   1      dash          ground black pepper

Mix all ingredients, including pepper to taste, in medium
bowl.
The pulled pork tossed in this mustard sauce was the hands-
down favorite at a recent party.  Though we prefer the
flavor of Dijon mustard in this sauce, feel free to
substitute other mustards to suit your taste.

===============

Western South Carolina-Style Barbecue Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      tablespoon    vegetable oil
     1/2  medium        onion, minced
   2      medium        garlic cloves, minced
     1/2  cup           cider vinegar
     1/2  cup           Worcestershire sauce
   1      tablespoon    dry mustard
   1      tablespoon    dark brown sugar
   1      tablespoon    paprika
   1      teaspoon      salt
   1      teaspoon      cayenne pepper
   1      cup           ketchup

Heat oil in 2-quart saucepan over medium heat.  Add onion
and garlic; saut‚ until softened, 4-5 minutes.  Stir in all
the remaining ingredients except ketchup; bring to a boil.
Reduce heat to low, then add ketchup.  Cook, stirring
occasionally, until thickened, about 15 minutes.

Served originally at Mama Rosa's, a long-time barbecue pit
restaurant in North Philadelphia, this recipe is adapted
from Jim Tarantino's outstanding book "Marinades" (Crossing
Press, 1992).

===============

Memphis Hogaholics Award-Winning Ribs Dry Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      tablespoon    lemon peel
   1      tablespoon    garlic powder
   1      tablespoon    onion powder
   1      tablespoon    chili powder
   1      tablespoon    paprika
   1      tablespoon    MSG
     1/2  tablespoon    black pepper
     1/2  tablespoon    cayenne pepper
     1/2  tablespoon    white pepper
   2      tablespoons   salt
   2      tablespoons   sugar

Mix together.

===============

Memphis Hogaholics Award-Winning Ribs Basting Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      quart         vinegar
   1      pint          water
     1/2  small can     chili peppers
   1      cup           prepared mustard
   1-1/4  cup           brown sugar
     1/2  stick         butter
     1/2  bottle        root beer

Combine first four ingredients in a saucepan and mix well.
Cook very slowly for 1 hour. Add sugar, butter, and root
beer to mixture and slow boil for 30 minutes.  Recommended
for pork and game.

===============

Memphis Hogaholics Award-Winning Ribs Wet Finishing Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   5      ounces        dark soy sauce
   24     ounces        tomato juice
   5      ounces        Worcestershire sauce
   12     ounces        catsup
   1      cup           apple cider vinegar
   1      cup           brown sugar
                        juice of 1 lemon
   1      teaspoon      red pepper
   1      teaspoon      black pepper
   1      teaspoon      dry mustard
     1/2  teaspoon      garlic powder
     1/2  teaspoon      onion powder
     1/2  teaspoon      oregano
     1/2  teaspoon      allspice
     1/2  teaspoon      ginger
     1/2  teaspoon      basil

Mix all ingredients in a saucepan and simmer for 1 hour.
Let sauce stand for 2 hours before serving on the side with
barbecue.

The thing about this recipe is that it will depend on your
smoker or grill and the size of your ribs.  Memphis
barbecue is over an extremely low fire so that the meat
cooks very slowly.  If you cannot do this on your grill,
you'll have to adjust your cooking time accordingly.  This
is the original recipe and the time to cook it in a smoker
pit is approximately 6 hours.  However, I cannot do this on
my grill because it's a gas grill and it's too hot.  This
is what I do.  I place the ribs on one side of the grill
only, I turn the burner on the other half of the grill on
low.  I place a smoker box over the flame with wood chips.
Using this method, I can stretch out the cooking time to
about 2 hours max. But it's worth the fuss.  The ribs are
so moist and falling apart on the inside with a nice crust
on the outside.

One more piece of advice.  If you have a small grill and
are doing a lot of meat for a big gang, here is something I
do in that situation.  I cook everything in batches until
nearly done, then transfer to baking pans and keep in warm
oven while I start the next batch. Since the majority of
cooking was done on the grill, the effect is the same.
Also, seal the pans of ribs with foil when you put in the
oven; grilled ribs dry out quickly in the oven.

===============

Red's Dry Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      11 ounce can  chili powder -- fine ground, light
   1      tablespoon    cayenne pepper
   2      tablespoons   black pepper
   4      tablespoons   garlic powder
     1/2  cup           lemon juice

Thoroughly coat all surfaces of the meat with lemon juice,
and rub it in well.  Combine all of the dry ingredients in
a bowl, and sprinkle generously all over the meat, rubbing
in well.  Make sure that the meat is entirely covered.
Store leftover rub in a tightly sealed container in the
'fridge.

===============

Red's Basting Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      tablespoons   chili powder
     1/2  teaspoons     cayenne pepper
   1      pound         butter
   2      each          onions -- peeled/thick sliced
   5      cloves        garlic -- peeled and crushed
   1      bunch         parsley sprigs -- chopped
   1      bottle        beer
   1      pint          vegetable oil
   4      each          lemon -- quartered
     1/4  cup           Worcestershire sauce
   2                    bay leaves

Melt the butter, add the onions and garlic, and saut‚ for 4
to 5 minutes to soften. Add the beer, squeeze in the lemon
juice, and add the lemon rinds to the pot. When the foam
subsides, add all of the remaining ingredients and bring to
a boil. Reduce the heat to a medium low and simmer for 20
minutes.  Keep baste warm, adding beer and oil as needed.

By the way, you'll notice that there are no tomatoes,
ketchup, or sugar in this recipe. All of these things
caramelize and burn quickly, giving the meat a nasty taste.

===============

Beef Jerky - Timpson

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   5      pounds        Beef (roast)
     1/4  cup           Soy sauce
   1      tablespoon    Worcestershire sauce
   1      teaspoon      Garlic powder
   1      teaspoon      Onion powder
   1      teaspoon      Black pepper (cracked if possible)
                        Red pepper flakes -- optional
   1      tablespoon    Liquid Smoke

I make jerky by buying about 5 pounds of beef.  Usually a
roast. I then remove the fat.  Cut thin strips of meat and
place into marinade and let soak for about 24 hours. Remove
from marinade and allow to air dry for at least one hour.
If you have a meat smoker then omit the liquid smoke and
smoke meat at a low temperature.  Dry in dehydrator or oven
set to lowest temperature setting, about 150F until dry.

===============

Title: Smoked Short Ribs

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   4      pounds        Beef plate short ribs
   10 1/2 ounce         Condensed tomato soup
      3/4 cup           Dry red wine
      1/4 cup           Finely chopped onion
   2      tablespoon    Cooking oil
   1      tablespoon    Prepared mustard
   2      teaspoon      Chili powder
   1      teaspoon      Paprika
      1/2 teaspoon      Celery seed

Soak wood chips (Mesquite or Hickory) in enough water to
cover starting about an hour before cooking time.  Drain
the chips.  In covered grill, place SLOW coals on both
sides of a drip pan.  Sprinkle coals with some dampened
wood chips.  Place ribs bone side down on grill.  Replace
cover.  Cook ribs until done, about 1 1/2-2 hours, adding
more wood chips every half hour.

Meanwhile, in saucepan, mix tomato soup, wine, onion,
cooking oil, mustard, chili powder, paprika, celery seed
and 1/4 tsp. salt.  Heat sauce at side of grill.  Brush
ribs with sauce.  Grill, uncovered, about 20 minutes more;
brush ribs frequently with sauce.
    
===============

Belly's Chuck Roast Finishing Sauce

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   5      ounce         Worcestershire sauce
   2      cups          Dr. pepper
   1      dash          Tabasco sauce
     1/4  cup           brown sugar
     2/3  cup           good salad oil
                        salt to taste
   3      teaspoon      garlic power
   6      ounce can     tomato paste
     1/2  cup           lemon juice

Mix all together and let it sit all the time you're cooking
the meat.  Adjust sauce to your own taste--heat and salt.

===============

Bill's Salsa Fresca

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      pound         Ripe red tomatoes
     1/2  pound         tomatillos or green tomatoes
   3      large         sweet banana peppers, seeded
   2      medium        Hungarian wax peppers, seeded
     1/4  bunch         cilantro
     1/2  medium        white or yellow onion
                        Jalapeno or Serrano pepper, seeded
                        adjust # for desired heat level
                        juice of 1 lime
   1      teaspoon      salt (to taste)

By hand or in a food processor or salsa maker, chop
everything into 1/4 to 1/8-inch pieces.  Combine all
ingredients in a large bowl and mix in lime juice and salt
to taste.
  
===============

Chicken Marinade

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     3/4  cup           your favorite BBQ sauce.
     1/2  cup           Soy Sauce
                        Jalapeno sauce (6 Jalapenos in 1/4
                        cup vinegar blended on liquefy)

Let the chicken marinate at least 4 hours.

Smoke at 200F for two hours (cooking time depends on your
smoker and thickness of meat). After 2 hours transfer to
grill and heat to 350F for 7 minutes turning the chicken at
3 1/2 minutes.

===============

Smoked Venison Roast

Southern Dry Rub

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/4  cup           ground black pepper
     1/4  cup           paprika
     1/4  cup           corn sugar (from beer supply store)
   2      tablespoons   salt
   2      teaspoons     dry mustard
   1      teaspoons     cayenne pepper, ground

Defrost the roast if frozen.  Sprinkle on rub.  Rewrap and
put in refrigerator for several hours (preferably
overnight).  When ready to smoke, take out of refrigerator,
sprinkle on more rub, and let it sit for an hour.

Get smoker ready and up to 200F.  Smoke (I use hickory or
mesquite) for about 1 hour to 1.5 hours per pound. Take
off, let rest for fifteen minutes, slice, and eat up.  Best
venison roast I ever had.

===============

Brine For Fish Smoking

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      quart         cold water
     1/3  cup           Kosher salt
     1/4  cup           sugar
   1      teaspoon      black, red peppers to taste

Mix this together in a glass or enamel bowl; add the fish
and submerge the fillets with a weight to hold them under
the brine. Brine the fillets in the refrigerator from 2 to
4 hours (longer makes the fish saltier).

Remove the fillets and wipe dry with paper towels. Place
them, skin side down, on several thicknesses of dry paper
towels and let them air dry for several hours. The surface
is dry enough when your finger sticks to the flesh.

Hot smoke over a 250F wood fire for about 2 hours or until
the fillets are firm to the touch (like medium rare steak).

Peel off the skin and serve.

===============

Grilled Fish

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      small         Onion, chopped
   1      tablespoon    Brown sugar
     1/4  cup           Cider vinegar
   2      tablespoons   Catsup
   2      tablespoons   Dry mustard
   1      teaspoon      Worcestershire sauce
     1/4  teaspoon      Ground cloves
   1      teaspoon      Chili powder
     1/4  teaspoon      Cayenne pepper

   1 1/2  pounds        Firm whitefish fillets such as
                        Red Snapper or Halibut

Combine all sauce ingredients in a pot, place over medium
heat and boil until reduced to a thin syrup. Pour the syrup
through a strainer, discard the onion in the strainer and
chill the syrup. Place fish steaks or fillets in a baking
dish and spoon some syrup over them. Marinate in the
refrigerator for 1 hour. Cook the fish on a hot grill,
basting with a teaspoon of barbecue syrup on each side.

===============

Smoked Salmon Marinade from Backwoods Frank

Salmon Marinade No. 1 - (Enough brine for two large Salmon
fillets)

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2  gallon        HOT water
     1/2  cup           Kosher salt
   1-1/2  cup           brown sugar
   3      tablespoons   garlic powder
   3      tablespoons   coarse ground black pepper
     1/2  cup           soy sauce
   1      tablespoon    bay leaves, crushed

Add ingredients to hot water and stir until dissolved.
Allow brine to cool. Add salmon fillets, soak covered for 3
hours in refrigerator. Remove fillets and air dry for at
least 1 hour.  Smoke in a single layer for about 2 hours at
250F or until firm and golden.

===============

Salmon Marinade No. 2 - (Enough brine for two large Salmon
fillets.)

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   3      cups          water
   1      cup           soy sauce
     1/3  cup           brown sugar
     1/3  cup           white sugar
     1/3  cup           Kosher salt
     1/2  teaspoon      onion powder
     1/2  teaspoon      garlic powder
     1/2  teaspoon      pepper

Stir until ingredients are dissolved. Marinate fillets
overnight. Air dry fillets and smoke as usual.

===============

Smoke-Grilled Salmon

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      teaspoon      Grated lime rind
     1/4  cup           Lime juice
   1      tablespoon    Vegetable oil
   1      teaspoon      Dijon mustard
   1      pinch         Pepper
   4                    Salmon steaks -- 1-inch thick
     1/3  cup           Toasted sesame seed (opt.)

In shallow dish, combine lime rind and juice, oil, mustard
and pepper; add fish, turning to coat. Cover and marinate
at room temperature for 30 minutes, turning occasionally.

Reserving marinade, remove fish; sprinkle with sesame seed.
Place on greased grill directly over medium heat. Add
soaked wood chips. Cover and cook, turning and basting with
marinade halfway through, for 16-20 minutes or until fish
flakes easily when tested with fork.

===============

Bear's Smoked Salmon

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      cup           brown sugar
   1      cup           salt
     1/4  cup           lemon pepper
   1      large         whole salmon, cut into steaks

Mix all the dry items for rub.

Lay out a piece of plastic wrap long enough to wrap both
filets well.  Lay a filet scales down 5 inches up from the
bottom of the wrap (lengthwise so the ends are left open).
Pack all the "rub" on top of the filet.  Lay the other side
face down into the "rubbed" fish.  You should now have the
semblance of a sugar stuffed fishy.

Flip the bottom of the wrap up over the top of the fish and
wrap it tightly (leaving the ends open).

Put on a cookie rack (or some such) in a baking dish and in
the refrigerator.  Let sit for 24 hours.  Brown water will
roll out of the ends that you left open.

Remove from wrap and scrape off excess rub.  Let stand and
air dry for 3 hours.

Smoke at 160F for 2-4 hours (when it starts to flake apart
with a fork, it's done).  I like to use cherry wood this.

===============

Bob's Grilled Salmon

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   4                    4-6 oz. salmon steaks

   3      tablespoons   Melted butter
   1      tablespoon    Lemon juice
   1      tablespoon    White wine vinegar
     1/4  teaspoon      Grated lemon peel
     1/4  teaspoon      Garlic salt
     1/4  teaspoon      Salt
   1      dash          Hot pepper sauce -- (optional)

Combine the sauce ingredients stirring thoroughly.
Generously brush both sides of the salmon steaks with
mixture.

Grill on a well-oiled grill over hot coals.  Make a tent of
foil or use barbecue cover and place over salmon.  Grill 6-
8 minutes per side depending on the thickness of your
steaks. Baste frequently. Turn once, brushing with sauce.
Steaks should flake easily when tested with a fork.

===============

Corky's Coleslaw

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      medium        head of green cabbage -- shredded
   2      medium        carrots -- grated
   1                    green pepper -- finely diced
   2      tablespoons   onion -- grated
   2      cups          mayonnaise
     3/4  cup           sugar
     1/4  cup           Dijon mustard
     1/4  cup           cider vinegar
   2      tablespoons   celery seeds
   1      teaspoon      salt
     1/8  teaspoon      white pepper

Mix vegetables in a bowl. Mix remaining ingredients in
another. Mix together and toss well. Cover and refrigerate
3-4 hours.

===============

Kit's Coleslaw

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      ounce         peanut oil
     1/2  ounce         lime juice
     1/2  ounce         cider vinegar
     1/2  teaspoon      mustard
     1/4  teaspoon      celery salt
   1      ounce         mayonnaise
                        salt and pepper
          dash          paprika
   1      head          cabbage, shredded
   1      small         onion, minced
   2      each          jalapenos, (or more) minced

Mix first 8 ingredients and whisk. Pour over remaining
ingredients. Better if made 12 hours ahead.

===============

Jack's Coleslaw (Grillin' and Chillin' TV-FOOD Network)

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     1/2  small         head green cabbage, shredded
   1      each          red bell pepper, julienned
   1      each          yellow bell pepper, julienned
   2      tablespoons   fresh dill
   1      tablespoon    dill seed
     1/2  tablespoon    chipotle powder
     1/2 cup            mayonnaise (good quality)
                        salt and freshly ground pepper

Combine all ingredients in a large bowl and toss well.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Chill until ready to
serve.
  
===============

Red's Prize Winnin' Pintos

Ingredients:

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   6      canned        Jalapeno peppers -- or suit
yourself
     1/2  teaspoon      cayenne pepper
   1      teaspoon      black pepper
   1      tablespoon    chili powder
   2      pounds        pinto beans -- dry
     1/2  pound         salt pork -- cubed 1x1x1/4"
   2      medium        onions -- chopped
   2      cloves        garlic -- minced

Soak the beans overnight. Drain, place in a pot, and refill
with water to cover the beans and add everything else. Cook
very slowly for 4 to 6 hours.

When the beans are done, test for salt and adjust to your
preference. Don't salt in advance, because the salt pork
will do that for you.

===============

Ken Haycook's Award Winning Chili - aka Garden Fresh Chili

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   3      pounds        Smoked Beef Brisket, diced
   2      cloves        Garlic, minced
   1      teaspoon      Black pepper
   2      tablespoons   Cumin
   1      teaspoon      Ginger
   1      tablespoon    Red Pepper
   1      small can     tomato paste
   1 1/2  cup           Boiling water
   1      medium        tomato
   4      ounce can     V8 juice
     3/4  cup           Onion, diced
   1      tablespoon    Salt
   3      tablespoons   Chili Powder
   1      tablespoon    Paprika
   1      tablespoon    Dry Mustard
   1      teaspoon      Oregano
   1      large can     tomato sauce
     1/2  can           cheap beer
   1      each          Jalapeno

Only use Smoked Brisket. DO NOT USE GROUND BEEF.

Heat the brisket with a little oil. Drain and remove meat.
Saut‚ onion and garlic in the left over oil. Add all the
spices and let everything roast awhile in the pot. Add the
beef back to the pot and add the tomato paste, tomato
sauce, water, V8 juice, tomato, Jalapeno, and beer. Cover
and simmer for 1 hr. Add more beer if chili gets too dry.
  
===============

Grilled Cajun Potato Wedges

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   3      large         russet potatoes (~2 1/4 pounds)
     1/4  cup           olive oil
   2      cloves        garlic, minced
   1      teaspoon      salt
   1      teaspoon      paprika
     1/2  teaspoon      dried thyme leaves, crushed
     1/2  teaspoon      dried oregano leaves, crushed
     1/4  teaspoon      black pepper
     1/8  teaspoon      ground red pepper (up to 1/4)
   2      cups          mesquite chips

1.  Prepare barbecue grill for direct cooking.  Preheat
oven to 425F.
2.  To prepare potatoes, scrub under running water with
stiff vegetable brush; rinse.  Dry well and do not peel.
3.  Cut potatoes in half lengthwise with chef's knife; then
cut each half lengthwise into 4 wedges.
4.  Place potatoes in large bowl.  Add oil and garlic; toss
to coat well.
5.  Combine salt, paprika, thyme, oregano, black pepper and
ground red pepper in small bowl.  Sprinkle over potatoes,
toss to coat well.
6.  Place potato wedges in single layer in shallow roasting
pan. (Reserve remaining oil mixture left in large bowl.)
Bake in oven for 20 minutes.
7.  Meanwhile, cover mesquite chips with cold water; soak
20 minutes.
8.  Drain mesquite chips; sprinkle over coals.  Place
potato wedges on their sides on grid.  Grill potato wedges,
on covered grill, over medium coals 15 to 20 minutes or
until potatoes are browned and fork-tender, brushing with
reserved oil mixture halfway through grilling time and
turning once with tongs.

===============

Gaul Darn Delicious Tater Salad -- ala Rock

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   2      pounds        Potatoes, boiled, peeled, chopped
                        to 1/2"
   2                    Hard boiled eggs.  (one per pound)
   1      teaspoon      Salt
     1/8  teaspoon      Black pepper
   2      tablespoons   Sweet relish
     1/2  ounce         Yellow mustard
   2      ounce         chopped Red peppers (I use chopped
                        hot pickled cherry peppers)
     1/2  cup           Celery, chopped
     1/4  cup           Miracle Whip
                        (+ or -  depending on wetness of
                        potatoes)
     1/2  ounce         Red Onions, chopped -- optional

Add all ingredients to large bowl or tub, and mix by hand.
Chill over night and serve.
  
===============

Smoke Stack Jack's Manna From Heaven Crackling Corn Bread

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1       cup          all-purpose flour
   1     big pinch      salt
     1/2  teaspoon      baking soda (heaping)
   1      teaspoon      double acting baking powder
   1 1/2  tablespoons   brown sugar or 1 tsp. white sugar
   1      cup           yellow, blue, or white cornmeal
   2      large         eggs
   1 1/2  cups          buttermilk
   3      tablespoons   melted smoked bacon dripping, or in
                        a pinch substitute butter or olive oil

Preheat over to 425F.  Combine the first 5 dry ingredients
and stir until well mixed.  Then stir in the cornmeal.
Stir the liquid into the dry ingredients.  In separate
bowl, combine eggs, buttermilk and drippings and beat until
smooth.

Have ready 1 1/2 cups Hormel Cracklings.  I like the
cracklings chopped up kind of fine.  Toss out any that
might break a tooth.  Hormel's the best brand, unless you
can get some from a BBQ place that does a lot of pork and
sells the skin as cracklings. Add and stir the cracklings
into the batter with a few quick strokes.  Pour batter into
a preheated 10 inch cast-iron skillet greased with bacon
drippings. Bake for twenty-five minutes at 425F on the
oven's top shelf.  Serve with barbecued pork-enhanced bean
soup, and try dunking the crackling corn bread into the
soup as you would a steak sandwich into au jus sauce.
